So far, you've seen an RNN architecture where the number of inputs,
Tx, is equal to the number of outputs, Ty.
It turns out that for other applications,
Tx and Ty may not always be the same,
and in this video,
you'll see a much richer family of RNN architectures.
You might remember this slide from the first video of this week,
where the input x and the output y can be many different types.
And it's not always the case that Tx has to be equal to Ty.
In particular, in this example,
Tx can be length one or even an empty set.
And then, an example like movie sentiment classification,
the output y could be just an integer from 1 to 5,
whereas the input is a sequence.
And in name entity recognition,
in the example we're using,
the input length and the output length are identical,
but there are also some problems were the input length and the output length can
be different.They're both our sequences but have different lengths,
such as machine translation where a French sentence and
English sentence can mean two different numbers of words to say the same thing.
So it turns out that we could modify
the basic RNN architecture to address all of these problems.
And the presentation in this video was inspired by a blog post by Andrej Karpathy,
titled, The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Recurrent Neural Networks.
Let's go through some examples.
The example you've seen so far use Tx equals Ty,
where we had an input sequence x(1),
x(2) up to x(Tx),
and we had a recurrent neural network that works as
follows when we would input x(1) to compute y hat (1),
y hat (2), and so on up to y hat (Ty), as follows.
And in early diagrams,
I was drawing a bunch of circles here to denote neurons but I'm just going
to make those little circles for most of this video,
just to make the notation simpler.
So, this is what you might call a many-to-many architecture
because the input sequence has many inputs as
a sequence and the outputs sequence is also has many outputs.
Now, let's look at a different example.
Let's say, you want to address sentiments classification.
Here, x might be a piece of text,
such as it might be a movie review that says,
"There is nothing to like in this movie."
So x is going to be sequenced,
and y might be a number from 1 to 5,
or maybe 0 or 1.
This is a positive review or a negative review,
or it could be a number from 1 to 5.
Do you think this is a one-star,
two-star, three, four, or five-star review?
So in this case, we can simplify the neural network architecture as follows.
I will input x(1), x(2).
So, input the words one at a time.
So if the input text was,
"There is nothing to like in this movie."
So "There is nothing to like in this movie," would be the input.
And then rather than having to use an output at every single time-step,
we can then just have the RNN read into entire sentence and have it output
y at the last time-step when it has already input the entire sentence.
So, this neural network would be a many-to-one architecture.
Because as many inputs,
it inputs many words and then it just outputs one number.
For the sake of completeness,
there is also a one-to-one architecture.
So this one is maybe less interesting.
The smaller the standard neural network,
we have some input x and we just had some output y.
And so, this would be the type of neural network that we covered
in the first two courses in this sequence.
Now, in addition to many-to-one,
you can also have a one-to-many architecture.
So an example of a one-to-many neural network architecture will be music generation.
And in fact, you get to implement this yourself in one of
the primary exercises for this course where you go is have a neural network,
output a set of notes corresponding to a piece of music.
And the input x could be maybe just an integer,
telling it what genre of music you want or what is the first note of the music you want,
and if you don't want to input anything,
x could be a null input, could always be the vector zeroes as well.
For that, the neural network architecture would be your input x.
And then, have your RNN output.
The first value, and then,
have that, with no further inputs, output.
The second value and then go on to output.
The third value, and so on,
until you synthesize the last notes of the musical piece.
If you want, you can have this input a(0) as well.
One technical now what you see in the later video is that,
when you're actually generating sequences,
often you take these first synthesized output and feed it to the next layer as well.
So the network architecture actually ends up looking like that.
So, we've talked about many-to- many,
many-to-one, one-to-many, as well as one-to-one.
It turns out there's one more interesting example of
many-to-many which is worth describing.
Which is when the input and the output length are different.
So, in the many-to-many example,
you saw just now, the input length and the output length have to be exactly the same.
For an application like machine translation,
the number of words in the input sentence,
say a French sentence,
and the number of words in the output sentence,
say the translation into English,
those sentences could be different lengths.
So here's an alternative new network architecture where you might have a neural network,
first, reading the sentence.
So first, reading the input,
say French sentence that you want to translate to English.
And having done that, you then,
have the neural network output the translation.
As all those y hat of (Ty).
And so, with this architecture,
Tx and Ty can be different lengths.
And again, you could draw on the a(0) [inaudible].
And so, this that collinear network architecture has two distinct parts.
There's the encoder which takes as input,
say a French sentence, and then,
there's is a decoder,
which having read in the sentence,
outputs the translation into a different language.
So this would be an example of a many-to-many architecture.
So by the end of this week,
you have a good understanding of all the components
needed to build these types of architectures.
And then, technically, there's
one other architecture which we'll talk about only in week four,
which is attention based architectures.
Which maybe isn't cleanly captured by one of the diagrams we've drawn so far.
So, to summarize the wide range of RNN architectures,
there is one-to-one, although if it's one-to-one,
we could just give it this,
and this is just a standard generic neural network.
Well, you don't need an RNN for this.
But there is one-to-many.
So, this was a music generation or sequenced generation as example.
And then, there's many-to-one,
that would be an example of sentiment classification.
Where you might want to read as input all the text with a movie review.
And then, try to figure out that they liked the movie or not.
There is many-to-many, so the name entity recognition, the example we've been using,
was this where Tx is equal to Ty.
And then, finally, there's this other version of many-to-many,
where for applications like machine translation,
Tx and Ty no longer have to be the same.
So, now you know most of the building blocks,
the building are pretty much all of these neural networks
except that there are some subtleties with sequence generation,
which is what we'll discuss in the next video.
So, I hope you saw from this video that using the basic building blocks of an RNN,
there's already a wide range of models that you might be able put together.
But as I mentioned, there are some subtleties to sequence generation,
which you'll get to implement yourself as well in
this week's primary exercise where you implement a language model and hopefully,
generate some fun sequences or some fun pieces of text.
So, what I want to do in the next video,
is go deeper into sequence generation.
Let's see the details in the next video.